welcome everyone to this week's ipld
devsync meeting it's
september the 21st 2020
and as every week we go over the stuff
that we've worked
on in the past week and then um
discussed
any open issues we might have
um please put your name on the attendees
list on the hack
pad by the way the heck pad is online
again because there was some
internet's work but it should work again
um
yeah so i start with myself
not that much report i'm still on the
rust multicast stuff
um interesting thing was that
while i was improving the api because
when i was integrating it
into rust cid it was just
api wise horrible to use because you
constantly need to unwrap things because
there might be errors but in many cases
you were 100 sure there won't be an
error
but you still have to unwrap because
theoretically there could be one
but not in those cases so this lead to a
few
api changes making things a bit nicer
and then
kind of like i changed almost everything
and i kind of rewrote the whole thing
but now
it's again back to what it used to be
more or less which is good so there's
not too many changes
when i do a pr and but i'm now i think
i'm happy with the result
and i'm still making sure that
everything works um
but and then also again trying to
integrate with
rust cid and lib t2p
because like this is kind of like my uh
libraries i use to make sure that the
api is at least kind of same
um yeah
cool um yeah there's not much else i
did on the ipod side of things
next on my list is danielle
cool so i continued with the ipld
adl for hampt um
i had a helpful call with rod and peter
to essentially discuss any
questions i had about you know hams in
general and especially
the schema for the one we're trying to
build here
um so i'm still making progress on that
now i've gotten to a point where i
actually understand all that i need to
write
um because before i wasn't familiar with
how go ipld prime works or how i adls
are actually implemented
i also wrote the first half of the
introduction to ipld go
which was part of the talk week there's
just a little section left as a to
so i'll finish that up this week i also
dug myself into a rabbit hole for
multicodec because i found that the
examples for ipld prime
when they for example use stack c war
they would just use
uh 0x71 instead of doing something like
multicodec.cbor or apld.taxi or
something like that
so i think i'll be co-generating a
lightgo package with consonants for all
of those
ids at least and finally
with eric we started writing down ideas
of how we could change
go ipld primes api in the near future
once things with filecoin calm down a
little bit
things like uh the import paths
that don't depend on github but also
some other things like removing some
unnecessary
error returns and stuff like that and
that's it for me
thanks um next is michael
hey yeah um yeah so i just did a ton of
doc stuff
um mostly cleaning up stuff shuffling it
around
uh writing more documentation and then a
substantial change to the spec site
so there's a new specs website it it has
all of the specs and all the content not
just schemas now
before was really just for schemas um
and that was really necessary because i
i need
to document the doc site to link to the
specs quite often
so um there are improvements going on in
kind of both of those places
um as a result there's a few new files
that landed in the specs repo
without pr because they just like had to
go somewhere really quickly and i had to
get
the site up but um so there's some
cleanup still to do there and there's
still a little bit left to do on the
docs website we're waiting on infrared
to click over the uh website
but in general the docs website's
looking pretty good it's like
showable to people um we you know we
need to go stuff
merged in we need the rest stuff merged
in but um
in general it's looking you know much
much better than anything that we had
before
so that's good um i also took on the
padding spec
so i took that off of peter's plate and
i'm gonna write that up um working on it
now if you have any relevant docs send
to my way
um i have a markdown file that him and
uh eric eric wrote a quick dock on
paddington that was in the docks repo
that i moved over so
working on that um and last uh
last week i was poking at this podcast
client on dagdb
um at some point building the stocks
website i realized that
i don't know why it takes so long and
there's so much code and view press
to make a website from markdown files it
seems like
like a lot and uh seems like it'd be
really easy to make a website from
markdown files so
i started kind of poking at that problem
and realized like oh there's actually
something really cool that you could do
here where
if you take the markdown files and you
use a yaml front matter
you end up with like basically sort of
display data
and metadata like actually structured
data kind of together
in this unified tree structure and then
i can just take that and actually stick
it in dag db like as a data structure
and then what happens when i start
playing with that and so i realized like
oh you can use that to like
build out like a list of posts and you
know site maps and all that kind of
stuff can just be like
from the dagger view representation
because it can do all the
linking and everything all the indexing
um so
it's basically like i wrote this little
i started working on this little project
it basically
takes you know a repo of markdown with
yet the ammo front matter
um optionally and turns it into data
structures and then another thing that
takes those data structures and turns
them into this website
um and then also i was like oh but you
could follow other websites
and then they could be like in your
follow feed and you could start to do
some of like the data like the social
networking kind of interlinking stuff so
i've been poking
at this we're calling it ipmd because
it's like it's really just sort of like
mark down plus yammer front matter as
like a data structure that
it's like a website that you move around
but it's kind of cool
um and it's like using a lot of the
github action stuff as
like the back end for this um
so uh like all the dagnyb stuff is just
stored in that so that's how like
replicating other people's
databases comes around like all of the
hosting and everything is already there
it automatically installs like a an
action to do the publishing and things
like that so that's been like a fun
little thing to work on it's
it's definitely feeding a lot of um
stuff into dagging into our primitives
like i'm realizing that there are things
that like could be a little easier in
all these layers that i'm like fixing as
i go
um but yeah it's like a fun little
project i've been poking at um
you can feel free to look at
i think that by the new year everyone on
the team will just have their own little
personal website that they're publishing
with this because it does it does make
publishing a little website like really
fun
actually like [ __ ] hack pad like i'm
just gonna start pushing markdown files
to my personal website and you'll see
them like because
like that's actually easier and like
some of the workflows are like easier
than some of these like websites that we
use for that so
like i probably won't use gists anymore
i'll just like make those pages on my
personal website it'll be fun
anyway uh i don't know who's next
eric me
yeah that sounds great by the way
because i spent a little time poking
around and trying to renovate my
personal website this week
uh my current one is i don't know where
i actually don't know where it's like
decades out of fade
and it like all of the modern tools
anyway so
in ipld golang news um
so as daniel's been writing some of the
the doc stuff it's kicked me in the
shins to try to
make some of the things prettier which
has been good and so one of the things i
worked on this week is making some
porcelain type functions to help you
construct data
that will take like normal golang types
like maps and structs and stuff and sort
of scan over them with reflection
and turn it into data model and so
that's
arguably long overdue but so there's a
initial draft of some
some prototype of that
it's going to be a very very inefficient
thing
it will not be cpu fast and it will not
be memory allocation cheap
it will in fact be laughably terrible at
both of them
but it'll let you get stuff done in like
one-liners
so maybe it'll have some utility
so there's a pr for that i'm not quite
finished you have to handle
every case and reflection that takes
some diligence
um the other thing i worked on this week
is i took another crack at the whole
link loader story um this is something
that there's also been an open issue on
in the go ipld prime repo for a while
it's number 55
and it's just big questions about can
this be simpler
please and that's been a tricky subject
because it comes
it drags together all these different
interfaces at once like
we want to have codecs be separate but
all come plugged
together and the multi-hashes all be
separate and but come plugged together
and then all of this comes at the
same junction points as the rest of the
link stuff and like yeah it's just a lot
of things that
touch
and so i think i've got another draft of
something that might be a solution to
this
and it breaks all these things down into
smaller function type declarations so
there's a function
type for like choose the multi-hasher
implementation and like choose the codec
implementation
and so there's that layer function
interface and then those give you
something that conforms to the function
interface of the codec so it's not a
direct binding there either
and the idea is that then we can make
the whole registry system even one of
those
function types that's just the chooser
sort of prototype
and this should give us all the
flexibility that we need to build
registries that
are simple and user facing and like
do the right thing by default and it
also gives us the ability to let other
people make their own
versions of those so like basically if
you didn't want to have a global
registry
then you could use a bunch of your own
functions for this
and then they all get pulled together
into one big old structure called a link
system
and then the idea is here we can put all
of the other helper methods
that a user actually cares about at the
end of the day
so we have one place to repeat all of
those things without pushing all of that
all that implementation effort and tons
of other helper functions into each
implementation of links or codex or
hashes or anything else
so this is still just a draft but it
feels a lot simpler
and i think we might want to try it out
in the future so
so that's cool to have in the sleeve
that's about it for this week
thanks next is rod okay
am i on yeah um
my week has been all about proto buffs
and my head is
full of proto buffs so full of proto
buffs
um so i think i'm done although um
i i see the dale has posted an
interesting issue on uh
uh the where is he posted this
the shipyard um
yeah there's a he's just posted an
interesting issue on ipfs explorer
components
where the web explorer and also the
um just
the the web ui and also the explorer is
having trouble navigating through
certain
uh unix of s paths
and he's an error type uh e is undefined
so it looks like it's coming out of
ipld tag pb the older
um protobuf library so that's something
to look into i'll have a look at that
um so what have i done
so the the new dag pb library i'm pretty
sure it's ready for publish
although i would like a look at the
specs link
first the pull request for the specs now
it got
simplified in the end i bid off
more than i needed to initially and then
wound it back
so really the only major change to the
schema is
making the hash optional which it is in
the format
and it is in um
go uh so
um and so and so i i decided to just to
make that
a this there's no like it would be nice
if everything if every link had
actually had a hash but it is possible
to construct blocks
now that i don't have a hash they just
empty links
and so while that's not ideal
um we should account for those blocks
existing um
[Music]
but anyway this discussion on that might
be worthwhile if if you think that's a
bad idea and
we should start blocking that out and
make making any making
stopping loading those blocks as being
valid um so that's poor request 297 in
the specs repo
in there as well i've added a bunch of
other little notes underneath the
schema that clarify how
um additional constraints that you can't
express within the schema
things like um you can't have an
empty links array uh because that's
indistinguishable at the byte level
at the block level at the encoding level
it has to be undefined or optional
or missing so your links array has to be
one or more
and there's a few other little things
like that in there
now i added some tests into the
into go merkle dag where the where the
go implementation lives um
and that's in there's a pull request in
the notes um
i'll try and get that merged but um that
uh
adds some tests to push at the edges of
the format to see
what happens in these in different cases
what it ends up with
as binary and what it decodes as just to
see the nature of these round trips and
what
what it means for various shapes to
exist in
at the data model and then what happens
to them when they go through a round
trip so that we can pin down
the an exact form for these things um
and then i've mirrored those tests in
javascript there's a couple of cases
where i exclude the
options so um one case is that i'm
saying that a
hash has to be a cid hash
and then a hash that can't be
interpreted as cid should be invalid
and you could use that the same argument
for that to say well a hash shouldn't be
undefined either maybe that's something
we should do
um and a couple of other things where
are the empty links array so you can't
do that
you just can't make a thing so one thing
that the new
js implementation does is it
it only allows you to uh encode
an object that is of the precise shape
that it should be
and that it would end up being if it
goes on to undergo a round trip through
the encoding
so you can't make an in-memory version
of these things
that is invalid and that would be
changed if it was to go through a round
trip
so it's really strict on the checking of
those objects but it also exports a
a prepare method that lets you um
you can run it as a i guess a safety
measure or as a convenience if you were
a little bit sloppy about the way you
wanted to create objects
and it'll do things like it'll make sure
that you don't have any extraneous
properties on your
objects um it'll
turn strings into bytes things like that
it'll sort your
links list the right way um stuff that
is a bit tedious to take care of if you
don't
if you're creating complex things um
or if you're just shoving data in and
you don't want to make links you just
want to show
bytes and you don't want to form these
things so there's a prepare method on
there to make it easier to deal with a
very strict format um and i think that
that works quite nicely
um so that's that i think i'm i think
i'm wrapped up this question about the
hasp maybe needs
needs to be addressed i'm still unsure
about that
um but um aside from that that's
that's me i'm i think i i i'd like to
move on from
pb now a little bit
uh a little bit tears oh the other thing
is in the in the javascript
implementation i
i wrote um a hand-rolled
um encoder and decoder for protobus
because our format really isn't that
complicated
um it's very simple and so what i
actually did was pull out the
code gen version from go rewrote into
javascript and then
refactored and simplified it to be much
more pleasant
um and so it's now there's no no
dependencies in that library
um so it'll be able to do the whole
thing for itself
which is we can probably include it in
the defaults in the uh block interface
now if it's that small too
yeah yeah yeah it's like the reason the
reason why we didn't include it is
because of the depth tree so
yeah wait so this is so you did a
use the protobuf compiler to generate
the javascript then you just
like kind of hand whittled it down to
the minimum needed
i took it so that so the go version has
a code gen
version of a protobuff encoder decoder
in it um because that's just how you do
it in go
like you actually make the code so i
pulled that code across
and then converted it into javascript
manually
and then because it's not that
complicated and then i just simplified
it out because like i
you know all the duplication of the
variant encoding
i just i just got a function to
encode and decode variance and that
they're just not complicated so it's all
inlined
it's all in the in the thing there's no
dependency for virus or anything um
and um deduped things
and i added um what should i do
so there is this case really interesting
case in protobufs that
you it will allow you to decode
sloppy objects so it dag pb
will accept objects that have extraneous
data that doesn't relate to the format
and in the go
version it just hangs it off this hidden
property in the dag pv struct and um
and it's never touched um
i've left that in there and it just gets
dropped on the floor at the moment but
it's one of these cases where our
formats
have all of these ways that you can
embed you can create
blocks with the same data but different
hashes or you can hide data in there
that that doesn't get used um
and i didn't think db had that but yeah
it does
all of that formats have this um in some
way
so that's there and i'm not rejecting
i'm not
i'm tempted to put a a throw in there so
it doesn't even decode blocks that
have these but who knows how much of
this stuff's in the wild so
i would be very surprised if that was in
the wild
very surprising yeah so would i um
but you never know you just don't know
yeah i was kind of i looked at the code
it's pretty small but my first time i
was like
why the heck would you start with go
generate code imported
javascript the javascript's build from
fertile but
it's so small
we're not using like all the protobuf
either right like we have like this very
tiny narrow yeah yeah like everything
but it was just kind of weird i was kind
of like dude like what that seems like
it's where you want to go to be honest
to be honest this was one of those
accidents
that was the yank shaving accidents it
was i was like i was in the go
code and i was messing around with it
and i was testing some of the edges and
so i had my head in this code and i was
like
i want to see what this does in
javascript and it's porting a little bit
of it and
why don't you just do it and it's really
it's really not hard to convert
basic go especially code didn't go that
does doesn't do too much fancy stuff
into javascript it's just
you know it really is just changing a
bit of syntax and it's
that's it and then you get to refactor
it into something nicer
and um and you end up with and the nice
thing is it um
it's it's really quite efficient in the
way that it lays out
um the bytes and i've managed to find
some
what i think are some pretty good
efficiency gains in the byte handling
the way it lays it out into the block um
and then the way it even reads it in um
it'll do
some um it'll reuse bytes uh in a fairly
efficient way so i wouldn't be surprised
if we get a pretty significant
performance boost from this
um but i i don't really want to spend
too much more time testing that kind of
stuff and i'm
cool um
okay does anyone else have any updates
or want to share i have two things real
quick so one is
someone posted some question on the ipfs
reddit today
about ipld for bitcoin and i provided a
response
so feel free to view it let me know if i
missed something of a better way to do
it i just linked it
in there in the chat um and then the
other thing too
is while you guys are looking at that uh
with the js craftsync project
what i uh want to do what i need is kind
of like a
a reference of a responder and a
requester with graphsync
and i'm planning to write those in go
since there's already a library that
works
obviously ipfs has a responder
capabilities so i could
use that but it's just a big dependency
so i just kind of want to do something
quick and simple around
go graph sync and so here's my question
given the fact that i'm building a
javascript library
and i need to use go base code
as uh to run against to verify operation
what are you guys thoughts on how i
should structure this should i put the
go base code as separate repo
and pulled in as like an extern git sub
module should i put that
those go things in some other directory
my javascript
package or my repo or and if so what
would be the directory structure for
that i don't know if you guys are not
talking about my main goal is to write
javascript
but i need some go code to use this
verify verification
for the javascript i want to put i need
to put that somewhere so what are you
guys
thoughts would that be just test
fixtures is that what you're doing
yeah i mean probably yeah that's all my
immediate needs are
um i need like a cli to basically
act as a requester against a javascript
responder and then vice versa a
javascript request
gets a go responder so the very simple
wrapper around
go graph sync that will you know issue a
request
i could even hard code the cid and all
this kind of stuff i wanted to
yeah i've had a few occasions where i've
had to do things like that and um
i've had variations of either
embedded as a i've got one repo where
i've actually got
javascript and go mirrored side by side
for publishing but it's just on the go
side it's not an ideal way of consuming
it
um in other cases where you you just
stick it into your test directory as a
separate subdirectory
and then you could npm ignore it from
your publishing
um because the nice thing about go is
that you don't end up with
you don't bloat your repo compiling it
um you
that all happens elsewhere so your code
just sits alone and compiling doesn't
it doesn't you don't end up with tons of
object files you need to clean up later
um so it's just but
maybe the ideal option if you're gonna
do a fair bit of it
is actually to set up a separate project
and put it in your in your go
source directory because one of the
problems with go
is it's not happy if you don't have it
set up in your in the right directory in
the right layout
go source if you don't do that then
you're in for a bad time
you could ask an argument for a separate
project compile it
to wasm and then call it from
javascript so you just do all your
testing in javascript
with go code that's compiled to wasm
and then you really bloat your repo oh
yeah yeah
yeah well the only thing is that i need
network connectivity i'm not sure if who
does does the
go asm support
or does i guess it'd be um the go
p the pdp does that support the what's
up no
no that works i don't think so you don't
you don't get full networking
functionality i think when you compile
the wasm but you can do
wrappers uh for
algorithms one yeah yeah okay so i don't
know if that'll work but
so so it sounds like roger saying either
uh just put it
into the test directory as like a like a
test fixture or test
i guess map or separate repository
it depends on how complicated it is if
it's really simple just make a go
directory in your test directory
stick it in there but that's where the
difference is
if there's any complexity to it make a
separate project and publish that
separately
and and put it in your go source
directory otherwise
yeah actually what i should probably do
is add it to the go graph sync library
as like test
example apps because they're very basic
i could see anyone using this
yep that's definitely a good idea i have
a few cases of that as well like them
like my dag pp one that's what what i've
just done
is really i'm adding tests to an old
repo and i'm not touching their code
i'm just adding tests to show me some
stuff
okay that's i'm gonna i'm gonna bug
hannah and see if
i'm sure she'll be fine with it but i'll
just check with her but actually now i'm
thinking about makes more sense thanks
all right um any other
updates questions or things to discuss
so i just have a question about um
encoding formats with uh cbor to json
and i'm just curious how conformant the
the ipld spec is for uh there's a new
draft
in ietf or rfc 7049
and i think a lot of the hedge cases are
not relevant for my
use case but i was curious if you guys
are following up with the latest draft
of the of the ief uh i ietf
rfc to make sure that it actually is um
following the json serialization
recommendations
which are non-normative i should mention
here's the link you cut out a little bit
at the end there
um okay so it's a new cbor spec
it's a new draft for updating uh the
seabor with
i think um as i mentioned last week i
had some challenges with
converting seaboard to json
so we don't we don't follow this law um
well we don't but like at least i took
it sometimes as an
inspiration on basically how they
um json should look like or even like
how we structure
they or like basically so no see at
least it is an inspiration
for when we're defining how the deck
c board works to make sure that when we
do
something specific in the xc board that
it also
kind of like applies to when you then
convert it to json or back so kind of
like so
so basically the the the recommendations
in this section
is quite good to see how kind of like a
trimmed down
c-board looks like and so i took this
inspiration when
i thought about the data model and so on
so um but i don't think we
really follow it closely but if there's
any updates i think we should check it
out
um to make sure that yeah
yeah so i'm writing the update to the
did document for the cbor section i
mentioned last week
and there they want me to
come up with very specific guidelines
for
lossless conversion between sibor and
json especially when it has to deal with
binary representation
in the seabor and to transform that into
a conversion to let's say base 16 base
encoding of that binary blob in cbor
since that's not supported in json
obviously
in cbor there is like tags tag 21 22 and
23 to do this but there is no
like tag for uh base 58 so
in addition to all that i'm actually
also recommending a the public key
multi-codec attribute property
and that is basically they don't like a
link so it's not gonna be a slash
in the cid it's just gonna be a cid and
that cid is a self-describing
a multi-codec that says this is base
58 encoded it's in version one
it's uh a public key uh
dd25519 and then the bytes follow
in that encoding
and does it make sense to use base 58
encoding in this
case like like what are your
reasons to use base if they didn't not
like like just abc
i mean for json obviously like base 64
or something i guess would make sense
yeah i think they're just making it
purposely difficult and over engineering
it myself
and i think it's mostly just uh
corporate jousting trying to
get people to basically one-up each
other and
and i'm trying to make sure that it's
just basically uh it's
easy the what i mentioned last time is
that they don't
like the basically string representation
and so they have this whole convoluted
naming structure
of let's say public key hex and that's
supposed to repre like the thing that
follows it's supposed to be a
public key hexadecimal representation of
a public key that is have
particular type etc and so it's uh
uh over engineering if you ask me but
i'm trying to be conformed
and give some recommendations for uh
lossless conversion between cbor and
json
yeah okay yes so i would just like like
i guess like because the base
58 is kind of a pain at least from my
experience that you
busy so there's not that many like like
for base
64 there are so many encoders out there
so it's super straightforward
but yeah i would probably use base64 or
32 but yeah yeah
but they want to basically like if you
do represent it in binary in the seabor
that there's uh these these uh tags
so that it will give you hints as far as
when it's
converted to json it should be converted
to let's say
base64 and i need to do the same thing
for all the different encodings
including base 58.
so i mean that cause there's hashtag
consistency
though because now you have binary that
basically means the same thing in two
different blocks but
it has this hint that says you know
right yeah well this is mostly for
seabor outside of ipld
um to fit their the document with lost
this lossless conversion but i think
i certainly am working on it all in ipld
but i need to have it interoperable with
everyone else's
approach so major headache
yeah um i i think on like that the
json specification i think we use also
base 64.
i if i recall correctly i can't recall i
think we use 32 for cids and then we use
for binary oh yeah that's right yeah
all right um anything else
um all right
and then um thanks everyone for
attending and
see you all again next week goodbye
everyone
i have some some pl stuff at the end
here for